dev_log/30_06_2025-11_7_2025.md, before:

# Dev log #1 | 30.06.2025 - 11.07.2025

## Started prototype development
The first prototype board is mainly focused to develop software.
There are added LEDs to signal which keys make up the current word.

-PICTURE-

In the schematic the keyboard uses a standard keymap, it has 30 keys and is connected to a `rp2040 pro micro`. This board is designed to use hot swap sockets, so a broken switch is easily replaceable and low profile Choc switches.
For the LEDs there are 4 `SN74HC595N` shift registers, because there are not enough pins to control them individually.
The LEDs are connected in a way, where the shift register sinks the current on the cathode, while the anode is permanently
connected with 330Ω to the 5V Raw pin on the MCU. Between the Raw and Gnd pins a 100μF capacitor is placed, so it stabilizates
the current in the circuit.

-PICTURE-

## Material list
### Required
- 30 x [Kingbright APT3216LZGCK smd green led](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/LED-Indication-Discrete_Kingbright-APT3216LZGCK_C5569481.html)
- 30 x [YAGEO RC1206FR-07330RL 330Ω smd resistor](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Chip-Resistor-Surface-Mount_YAGEO-RC1206FR-07330RL_C114944.html)
- 4 x [Texas Instruments SN74HC595N shift register](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Shift-Registers_Texas-Instruments-SN74HC595N_C78711.html)
- 1 x [Samsung Electro-Mechanics CL31A107MQHNNNE 100μF smd capacitor](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Multilayer-Ceramic-Capacitors-MLCC-SMD-SMT_Samsung-Electro-Mechanics-CL31A107MQHNNNE_C15008.html)
- 1 x [XFCN PZ254V-11-04P pin headers](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Pin-Headers_XFCN-PZ254V-11-04P_C2691448.html)
- 30 x [Kailh Low Profile Choc Switches](https://splitkb.com/products/kailh-low-profile-choc-switches)
- 30 x [Kailh Choc Hotswap sockets](https://splitkb.com/products/kailh-hotswap-sockets?variant=39472161456205)

### Optional
- Optionally you can use [pin sockets](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Female-Headers_HCTL-PM254-1-13-Z-3-0-C_C5159941.html) for the MCU, so it is not directly solder onto the keyboard

Commit message:

Added pictures to dev_log

dev_log/30_06_2025-11_7_2025.md, after:

# Dev log #1 | 30.06.2025 - 11.07.2025

## Started prototype development
The first prototype board is mainly focused for software development.
There are LEDs to signal which keys make up the current word.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3f5f1eef-1c5e-4669-8555-c3965eeebfaa)

### Keymap
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6005f2ab-564b-465d-bef8-11b001e4cc03)
In the schematic the keyboard uses a standard keyboard matrix, it has 30 keys and is connected to a `rp2040 pro micro`. This board is designed to use hot swap sockets, so a broken switch is easily replaceable and low profile Choc switches.

### LEDs
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bdff3073-150d-46f1-beb7-6371444f077e)
For the LEDs there are 4 `SN74HC595N` shift registers, because there are not enough pins to control them individually.
The LEDs are connected in a way, where the shift register sinks the current on the cathode, while the anode is permanently
connected with 330Ω to the 5V Raw pin on the MCU. There are also 4 break-out pins, so the leds can be tested either with buttons or an external MCU.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d0704d1d-600f-440a-9ece-593e3411ae0a)

## Material list
### Required
- 30 x [Kingbright APT3216LZGCK smd green led](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/LED-Indication-Discrete_Kingbright-APT3216LZGCK_C5569481.html)
- 30 x [YAGEO RC1206FR-07330RL 330Ω smd resistor](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Chip-Resistor-Surface-Mount_YAGEO-RC1206FR-07330RL_C114944.html)
- 4 x [Texas Instruments SN74HC595N shift register](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Shift-Registers_Texas-Instruments-SN74HC595N_C78711.html)
- 1 x [Samsung Electro-Mechanics CL31A107MQHNNNE 100μF smd capacitor](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Multilayer-Ceramic-Capacitors-MLCC-SMD-SMT_Samsung-Electro-Mechanics-CL31A107MQHNNNE_C15008.html)
- 1 x [XFCN PZ254V-11-04P pin headers](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Pin-Headers_XFCN-PZ254V-11-04P_C2691448.html)
- 30 x [Kailh Low Profile Choc Switches](https://splitkb.com/products/kailh-low-profile-choc-switches)
- 30 x [Kailh Choc Hotswap sockets](https://splitkb.com/products/kailh-hotswap-sockets?variant=39472161456205)

### Optional
- Optionally you can use [pin sockets](https://lcsc.com/product-detail/Female-Headers_HCTL-PM254-1-13-Z-3-0-C_C5159941.html) for the MCU, so it is not directly solder onto the keyboard
